help center: Rewrite Import from Slack documentation. (#22780)
zulip/zulip: templates/zerver/help/import-from-slack.md

# Import from Slack

Starting with Zulip 1.8, Zulip supports importing data from Slack,
including users, channels, messages, attachments, avatars, custom
emoji, and emoji reactions.
You can import your Slack organization into Zulip. It's a great way to preserve
your organization's history when you migrate from Slack to Zulip, and to make
the transition easy for the members of your organization.

This tool has been used to import Slack workspaces with 10,000 members
and millions of messages. If you're planning on doing an import much
larger than that, or run into performance issues when importing,
[contact us](/help/contact-support) for help.
The import will include:

> **Note:** You can only import a Slack workspace as a new Zulip

Reviewer: This NOTE is super important. If fact, I think it's too understated as it is. If someone starts using Zulip and then decides to do a Slack import, we have to torch what they did (or they have two orgs). If someone has multiple Slack imports, they get multiple Zulip orgs. It's the number 2 gripe I hear, and the only one that we could control (Number 1 is Slack doesn't export PMs)

Reviewer 2: This is now outside the tabs in a way that I think is pretty clear.

organization. In particular, you cannot use this tool to import from Slack

> into an existing Zulip organization.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, perhaps we should preserve this note in some way? It might be important for users' understanding this "adding" their Slack data to their pre-existing org is not possible

Author: I tried changing the warning to:

>     You can only import a Slack workspace as a new Zulip organization. Slack
    workspace history cannot be added into an existing Zulip organization.

> * Your organization's **name** and **logo**

Reviewer 4: Also, maybe we can highlight Zulip's import tool before listing all the things that will be included and say something like:
 
```
Zulip's import system will migrate your organization's:

* **Message history**, including attachments and emoji reactions
* **Users**, including names, emails, roles, avatars, time zones, and custom profile fields
* **Channels**, including all user subscriptions
* **Custom emoji**
* **Name**
* **Logo**
```

> * Your organization's **name** and **logo**

Reviewer 2: Moved Name and logo to a single line at the top; they felt silly being their own lines.

To import your Slack organization into Zulip, you will need to take the
following steps, which are described in more detail below:

{start_tabs}

1. Export your Slack data.

2. Contact Zulip support to import your data into a Zulip Cloud organization,
   *or* import it into your self-hosted Zulip server.

> 3. Clean up after the Slack export.

Author: Good idea!

4. Get your organization's members started with Zulip!

{end_tabs}

## Import your organization from Slack into Zulip

### Export your Slack data

Slack's [data export
service](https://slack.com/services/export) allows you to
export all public channel messages, **including older messages that may no

> longer be searchable** under your Slack plan.

Author: Hm, yeah, I'll play with removing it from the intro after all.

Unfortunately, it may or may not be possible to export messages in your organization's
private channels and direct messages:

- Workspace Owners for Slack organizations on the Free or Pro plan can request
  an export by [contacting Slack support](https://slack.com/help/requests/new),
  which will be approved [“under limited
  circumstances”](https://slack.com/help/articles/204897248-Guide-to-Slack-import-and-export-tools).

> - Owners for Slack organizations on the Business+ or Enterprise Grid plans can [apply

Reviewer 3: Should be "Owners **of** Slack organizations" I think? Unless `for` is also grammatically correct and I haven't run into it :thinking:

Author: typo -- thanks!

## Import your organization from Slack into Zulip

### Export your Slack data

It will be a long string starting with `xoxb-`.  It is required to
fetch data that Slack doesn't include in their data exports, like
email addresses.
Slack's [data export
service](https://slack.com/services/export) allows you to
export all public channel messages, **including older messages that may no
longer be searchable** under your Slack plan.

Unfortunately, it may or may not be possible to export messages in your organization's
private channels and direct messages:

- Workspace Owners for Slack organizations on the Free or Pro plan can request
  an export by [contacting Slack support](https://slack.com/help/requests/new),
  which will be approved [“under limited
  circumstances”](https://slack.com/help/articles/204897248-Guide-to-Slack-import-and-export-tools).

- Owners for Slack organizations on the Business+ or Enterprise Grid plans can [apply
  for access](https://slack.com/help/articles/204897248-Guide-to-Slack-import-and-export-tools) to a self-serve data export tool.

{start_tabs}

> 1. [Create a new Slack app](https://api.slack.com/apps).

Reviewer: Having Steps 1 and 2 be "create a new Slack app" and "Create scope" seems "best" to me, as it immediately weeds out users without those permissions, who will inevitably get further down the list to suddenly discover they cannot proceed, instead of finding out earlier. I know the words "Make sure that you are..." are there, which is conceptually congruent, but easy to skip as there is no action here that will gate them. 

This isn't an objection, just rather a point of clarification: Do we want to give actionable steps here (previously 3 actionable steps), or make people read and here (currently 6 steps, but still only 3 actionable)?

Author: Hm, this comment made me think that we should give instructions for how to check that you're an admin, but I'm failing to find a Slack help page that answers this question.

Author: The reason I reordered the export at the top is that I wanted to get people going with the easier step.

Author: Which steps would you describe as not being actionable?

> 1. Make sure that you are an owner or admin for your Slack organization.

Reviewer 3: "for"->"of" again? Disregard this if I'm just confused about the grammar as mentioned :sweat_smile:

Author: fixed :)

>    after you start the export process.

Reviewer: Mentioning that there will be an `xoxe-` token _that we do not need_ here is important. That is often sent along in lieu of the API token we do need.

Author: The `xoxe` token comes from a different place, and I think it shouldn't cause confusion with these updated instructions. It's not shown anywhere near the `xoxb` token.

![Screen Shot 2022-08-23 at 12 22 55 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2090066/186523498-beaba709-40a1-44b0-830a-98ea653e2ae0.png)

Reviewer 2: We've definitely had problems in the past with folks trying to send us the wrong type of token. But I think there's no harm in seeing whether we continue to see that failure mode with this improved documentation, and add a reference wherever we feel is most appropriate after talking to users who got confused.

6. You will immediately see a **Bot User OAuth Token**, which is a long
   string of numbers and characters starting with `xoxb-`. Copy this token. You
   will use it to download user and emoji data from your Slack workspace.

{end_tabs}

### Import your data into Zulip

To start using Zulip, you will need to choose between Zulip Cloud and
self-hosting Zulip. For a simple
managed solution, with no setup or maintenance overhead, you can [sign
up](/new/) for Zulip Cloud with just a few clicks. Alternatively, you can
[self-host](/self-hosting/) your Zulip organization. See
[here](/help/getting-your-organization-started-with-zulip#choosing-between-zulip-cloud-and-self-hosting)
to learn more.

#### Import into a Zulip Cloud organization

If you plan to use Zulip Cloud, we'll take it from here! Please e-mail
[support@zulip.com](mailto:support@zulip.com) with the following information:

1. The subdomain you would like to use for your organization. Your Zulip chat will
   be hosted at `<subdomain>.zulipchat.com`.

    !!! warn ""

>         You can only import a Slack workspace as a new Zulip organization. If the organization already exists, the import process will overwrite all data that's already there. If needed, we're happy to preserve your data by moving an organization you've already created to a new subdomain prior to running the import process.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, alternative idea - this used to be at the top and now gets moved to the `Cloud` section. But it equally applies in self-hosted case, so perhaps it still belongs somewhere at the top?

>         You can only import a Slack workspace as a new Zulip organization. If the organization already exists, the import process will overwrite all data that's already there. If needed, we're happy to preserve your data by moving an organization you've already created to a new subdomain prior to running the import process.

Reviewer: This point is worth repeating, too, so top _and_ bottom would be my vote.

1. The `zip` file containing your Slack message history export.

1. Your Slack **Bot User OAuth Token**, which will be a long
   string of numbers and characters starting with `xoxb-`

> #### Import into a self-hosted Zulip server

Reviewer 3: Reading this, I wonder if it's indeed best to keep this section here on the /help/ page or does this fit more as a ReadTheDocs doc and we could simply be linking to it here?

Author: Mm, I think that would be better, yeah. Thoughts on how to integrate it into ReadTheDocs.

I think it would be fine to merge this PR and make this change as a follow-up if it's a bit tricky.

Reviewer 2: I went with using tabs for the two blocks, which really helps with one being more likely to see the "Import details" section below.

I think I like how the end result reads pretty well as-is, so don't feel a strong motivation to move something to ReadTheDocs.

   of the guide for [installing a new Zulip
   server](https://zulip.readthedocs.io/en/stable/production/install.html).

{end_tabs}

#### Import details

Whether you are using Zulip Cloud or self-hosting Zulip, here are few notes to keep
in mind about the import process:

- Slack does not export organization settings, so you will need to [set up your
  Zulip organization](/help/getting-your-organization-started-with-zulip).

- Slack does not export user settings, so users in your organization may also
  want to [customize their account settings](/help/getting-started-with-zulip).

- Slack's user roles are mapped to Zulip's [user
  roles](/help/roles-and-permissions) in the following way:

| Slack role              | Zulip role    |
|-------------------------|---------------|
| Workspace Primary Owner | Owner         |
| Workspace Owner         | Owner         |
| Workspace Admin         | Administrator |
| Member                  | Member        |
| Single Channel Guest    | Guest         |
| Multi Channel Guest     | Guest         |
| Channel creator         | none          |

- Messages in threads are imported, but they are not explicitly marked as
  being in a thread.

> - Message edit history and `@user joined #channel_name` messages are not imported.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps we should also mention that Slack Threads are not supported? Someone asked about that recently. Ref https://github.com/zulip/zulip/issues/9006

Author: The current version has this point just above:

> - Messages in threads are imported, but they are not explicitly marked as
  being in a thread.

### Clean up after the Slack export

Once your organization has been successfully imported in to Zulip, you should
delete [the Slack app](https://api.slack.com/apps) that you created.  This will
prevent the OAuth token from being used to access your Slack workspace in the

> future.

Author: Hm, someone else should comment here, but I think the main point is that nobody else will be able to reuse the token either (e.g. Zulip's support team).

> future.

Author: I'll add the Slack app clarification as suggested.

## Get your organization members started

> Once the import completes, all users from your Slack organization will have

Reviewer 4: Maybe tweak the wording a bit
```suggestion
Once the import process is complete, all users from your Slack organization will have
```

Author: changed to "process is completed"

accounts in your new Zulip organization. You will need to:

{start_tabs}

1. Decide how users will log in for the first time (see below).

1. Share the URL for your new Zulip organization, and (recommended) the [Getting
   started with Zulip guide](/help/getting-started-with-zulip).

{end_tabs}

### Decide how users will log in

When user accounts are imported from Slack, users initially do not have passwords
configured. There are a few options for how users can log in for the first time.

!!! tip ""
    For security reasons, Slack passwords are never exported.

### Allow users to log in with non-password authentication

When you create your organization, users will immediately be able to log in with [
authentication methods](help/configure-authentication-methods) that do not require a password.
Authentication with Google, GitHub, GitLab, and Apple is enabled by default, and

> you can set up other authentication methods such as LDAP or [SAML](/help/saml-authentication).

Reviewer 3: This paragraph seems to be talking about Cloud specifically (due to the "Authentication with Google, GitHub, GitLab, and Apple is enabled by default" sentence) - so mentioning LDAP doesn't quite fit with that, because we don't offer LDAP on Cloud

Author: Hm, what would be the best way for the sentence to work for self-hosters too? Maybe something like this?

> Zulip offers a variety of authentication methods, including Google, GitHub, GitLab, Apple, LDAP and [SAML](/help/saml-authentication).

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that seems like a good way to cover it.

### Send password reset emails to all users

You can send password reset emails to all users in your organization, which

> will allow them to set an initial password.

Reviewer 4: Maybe this should go right below `### Send password reset emails (self-hosted organization)`?

Author: Oh, I think I mean to nest "Send password reset emails (self-hosted organization)" one layer deeper. Let me try that.

- Slack does not export user settings, so users in your organization may want to
  [customize their account settings](/help/getting-started-with-zulip).

- Slack's user roles are mapped to Zulip's [user
  roles](/help/roles-and-permissions) in the following way:

| Slack role              | Zulip role    |
|-------------------------|---------------|
| Workspace Primary Owner | Owner         |
| Workspace Owner         | Owner         |
| Workspace Admin         | Administrator |
| Member                  | Member        |
| Single Channel Guest    | Guest         |
| Multi Channel Guest     | Guest         |
| Channel creator         | none          |

- Messages in threads are imported, but they are not explicitly marked as
  being in a thread.

- Message edit history and `@user joined #channel_name` messages are not imported.

## Clean up after the Slack export

Once your organization has been successfully imported in to Zulip, you should
delete [the Slack app](https://api.slack.com/apps) that you created in order to
[export your Slack data](#export-your-slack-data).  This will prevent the OAuth
token from being used to access your Slack workspace in the future.

> ## Get your organization members started

Reviewer 5: Perhaps make the heading a bit more general? There are a couple of key items in here that aren't really about the individual members:
* org settings
* integrations

Author: Yeah, that section expanded as I was working on it. Maybe just "Get your organization started with Zulip"?
